Okay. Let's get to some explanations
first so you know what is going on!
  
As expected, you will get randomized
items from chests, NPCs, enemies, etc.
But there is also the Randomizer Cycle!

The Randomizer Cycle is a core feature
which triggers a random event every 20
to 40 seconds on normal Cycle speed.

You could receive or lose items, enemies
could start or stop spawning, the music
or environment might change, etc.

The Randomizer Cycle speed can be
adjusted at any time by equipping
the Randomizer Emblem.

Also the various Cycle event categories
can be separately disabled by going into
the Configure options menu.

You will find even more options in the
Miscellaneous options menu. Try it!

Key Items can be found anywhere in the
game. Vows are an exception however.

Vows can be found inside of chests and
be given by NPCs but the chance of
that happening is pretty low.

You will get a guaranteed randomized
Vow by completing a Temple. Make
sure to keep that in mind!

By the way, Vows recharge faster and
also deal more damage in this mod!

You can leave the Great Sky Island
immediately. Give it a go!

Shrines and Towers can be activated
from the start as well.

Zonai Devices and Vows are no longer
disabled by default in Shrines. Try to
make use out of that!

Zonai Device Dispensers can drop all
Zonai Devices and essential items.
Get some for tactical reasons!

The stronger the monster, the more
items it will drop. Nifty, eh?
  
Almost everything drops randomized
items! Try to lift up stones or destroy
rock walls. It's worth it!

Upgraded Armor Pieces will not be stolen
by the Randomizer Cycle. Go upgrade
some with that knowledge!

Key Items will also not be taken away,
though they can be temporarily disabled
by the Prohibitions Cycle feature.

Burning environmental changes stay
for a maximum time of 30 seconds.
Cold and Heat stay 90 seconds.

There is a special mode in this mod
called Goal Mode. Want to make your
run more interesting? Try it out!

There is an increased chance to obtain
items you have a goal for until the goal
has been completed.

Please note that Headshot goals
are updated once the enemy has
been defeated.

Oh, and don't forget the brand-new
Randomizer Shop! Both features can
be accessed from the main menu.

Lastly, this mod comes with quality
of life additions such as removal of 
first-time animations!

That's it for the explanations. I hope
that you will have a lot of fun with
this mod! See you around!